doc/source/index.rst, before:

========================================
Patrole: Tempest Plugin for RBAC Testing
========================================

Overview
========

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2

   overview

RBAC Overview
-------------

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2

   rbac-overview
   multi-policy-validation

User's Guide
============

Patrole Configuration Guide
---------------------------

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2

   configuration

Patrole Installation Guide
--------------------------

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2

   installation

Field Guides
============

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1

   field_guide/index
   field_guide/rbac

Developer's Guide
=================

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1

   HACKING
   REVIEWING
   test_writing_guide

Framework
---------

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 3

   framework/overview
   framework/rbac_validation
   framework/rbac_authority
   framework/policy_authority
   framework/requirements_authority
   framework/rbac_utils
   framework/code/modules

Indices and tables
==================

* :ref:`search`

Commit message:

Add PDF building
This commit add PDF building tox.ini environment and options for LaTeX
output. The chapter header in README.rst has been changed because "Team
and repository tags" is not appropriate for the title of this document.
And, this commit also updates repository URLs to opendev.org.

Change-Id: I1337f3185d72108eef2968cca3cb81d52e742e90
Story: #2006070
Task: #35469

doc/source/index.rst, after:

========================================
Patrole: Tempest Plugin for RBAC Testing
========================================

Overview
========

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2

   overview

RBAC Overview
-------------

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2

   rbac-overview
   multi-policy-validation

User's Guide
============

Patrole Configuration Guide
---------------------------

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2

   configuration

Patrole Installation Guide
--------------------------

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2

   installation

Field Guides
============

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1

   field_guide/index
   field_guide/rbac

Developer's Guide
=================

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1

   HACKING
   REVIEWING
   test_writing_guide

Framework
---------

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 3

   framework/overview
   framework/rbac_validation
   framework/rbac_authority
   framework/policy_authority
   framework/requirements_authority
   framework/rbac_utils
   framework/code/modules

Search
======

.. only:: html

  * :ref:`Patrole document search <search>`: Search the contents of this document.

* `OpenStack wide search <https://docs.openstack.org>`_: Search the wider
  set of OpenStack documentation, including forums.
